Op deployer updates (#1020)
ethereum-optimism/docs: pages/builders/chain-operators/tools/op-deployer.mdx

title: Deployer
lang: en-US
tags: ["op-deployer","eng-platforms"]

> description: Learn how op-deployer can simplify deployment of the standard OP Stack.

Reviewer: Rather than introducing the concept of "standard OP Stack," can we say "standard OP Stack _Chain_"?

---

import {Callout, Steps} from 'nextra/components'

# Deployer

`op-deployer` simplifies the process of deploying the OP Stack. It works similarly to [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io). Like Terraform, you define a declarative config file called an "intent," then run a command to apply the intent to your chain. `op-deployer` will compare the state of your chain against the intent, and make whatever changes are necessary for them to match. In its current state, it is intended to deploy new standard chains that utilize the Superchain wide contracts.

## Installation

> You can find the latest releases in the monorepo's [release page](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases). The following guide is how to complie it from source. Assuming you have the Go toolchain installed, you can install `op-deployer` by following these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the latest releases in the monorepo's [release page](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases). The following guide is how to complie it from source. Assuming you have the Go toolchain and `just` installed, you can install `op-deployer` by following these steps:
```

title: Deployer
lang: en-US
tags: ["op-deployer","eng-platforms"]
description: Learn how op-deployer can simplify deployment a standard OP Stack chain.
---

import {Callout, Steps} from 'nextra/components'

# Deployer

`op-deployer` simplifies the process of deploying the OP Stack. It works similarly to [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io). Like Terraform, you define a declarative config file called an "intent," then run a command to apply the intent to your chain. `op-deployer` will compare the state of your chain against the intent, and make whatever changes are necessary for them to match. In its current state, it is intended to deploy new standard chains that utilize the Superchain wide contracts.

## Installation

The recommended way to install `op-deployer` is to download the latest release from the monorepo's
[release page](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/optimism/releases). To install a release, download the binary
for your platform then extract it somewhere on your `PATH`. The rest of this tutorial will assume that you have
installed `op-deployer` using this method.

> To install from source, follow the steps below. You will need to install the Go toolchain and `just` as prerequisites.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To alternatively install from source, follow the steps below. You will need to install the Go toolchain and `just` as prerequisites.
```

l2ContractsLocator = "tag://op-contracts/v1.7.0-beta.1+l2-contracts" # L2 smart contracts versions

# Delete this table if you are using the shared Superchain contracts on the L1
# If you are deploying your own SuperchainConfig and ProtocolVersions contracts, fill in these details
[superchainRoles]
  proxyAdminOwner = "0xb9cdf788704088a4c0191d045c151fcbe2db14a4" 
  protocolVersionsOwner = "0x85d646ed26c3f46400ede51236d8d7528196849b" 
  guardian = "0x8c7e4a51acb17719d225bd17598b8a94b46c8767" 

# List of L2s to deploy. op-deployer can deploy multiple L2s at once
[[chains]]
  # Your chain's ID, encoded as a 32-byte hex string
  id = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000003039"
  # Update the fee receipiant contract  
  baseFeeVaultRecipient = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  l1FeeVaultRecipient = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  sequencerFeeVaultRecipient = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  eip1559Denominator = 50
  eip1559Elasticity = 6
  # Various ownership roles for your chain. When you use op-deployer init, these roles are generated using the

>   # test... junk mnemonic. You should replace these with your own addresses for production chains.

Reviewer: Perhaps a question for @mslipper, but can we generate junk roles that are more obviously junk roles? I can imagine someone skimming these files and failing to update the roles because they look like valid addresses.

Reviewer 3: Yes I can do this easily. I think the initial intent shouldn't validate unless a dedicated `--dev` flag is passed. I can fix this.

and will use the same [protocol versions](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/specs/blob/main/specs/protocol/superchain-upgrades.md)
address as other chains on the Superchain.

### `inspect`: generating genesis files and chain information

You'll be inspecting the `state.json` file, so you need to navigate into your working directory to inspect the file. With the contracts deployed, you can generate the genesis and rollup configuration files. Run the following commands to do so:

```
cd .deployer
../bin/op-deployer inspect genesis <l2-chain-id> > genesis.json
../bin/op-deployer inspect rollup <l2-chain-id> > rollup.json
```

Now that you have your `genesis.json` and `rollup.json` you can spin up a node on your network. You can also use the following inspect subcommands to get additional data:

```
../bin/op-deployer inspect l1 <l2-chain-id> # outputs all L1 contract addresses for an L2 chain
../bin/op-deployer inspect deploy-config <l2-chain-id> # outputs the deploy config for an L2 chain
../bin/op-deployer inspect l2-semvers <l2-chain-id> # outputs the semvers for all L2 chains
```

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a callout here, to add your chain to the SCR with these genesis files?

    Run the following commands to build the binary:

    ```bash
    cd op-deployer
    just build
    ```

    The binary will be in the `bin` directory.
</Steps>

> ## Deployment Usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Deployment usage
```

The base use case for `op-deployer` is deploying new OP Chains. This process is broken down into three steps:

<Steps>

> ### `init`: configuring your chain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `init`: configure your chain
```

> To get started with `op-deployer`, you need to create an intent file that outlines your desired chain configuration. You can use the built-in `op-deployer` utility to generate this file. Just run the following command to create an example intent file for a development chain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To get started with `op-deployer`, create an intent file that defines your desired chain configuration. Use the built-in `op-deployer` utility to generate this file. Run the following command to create an example intent file for a development chain:
```

Reviewer 2: There's a lot of (necessary) text in these steps, so I'm just trying to clean it up where possible

Reviewer 2: Alternatively:

```suggestion
To get started with `op-deployer`, create an intent file that defines your desired chain configuration. Use the built-in `op-deployer` utility to generate this file:
```

[[chains]]
  # Your chain's ID, encoded as a 32-byte hex string
  id = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000003039"
  # Update the fee receipiant contract  
  baseFeeVaultRecipient = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  l1FeeVaultRecipient = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  sequencerFeeVaultRecipient = "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000"
  eip1559Denominator = 50
  eip1559Elasticity = 6
  # Various ownership roles for your chain. When you use op-deployer init, these roles are generated using the
  # test... junk mnemonic. You should replace these with your own addresses for production chains.
  [chains.roles]
    l1ProxyAdminOwner = "0x1a66b55a4f0139c32eddf4f8c60463afc3832e76"
    l2ProxyAdminOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd"
    systemConfigOwner = "0x8e35d9523a0c4c9ac537d254079c2398c6f3b35f"
    unsafeBlockSigner = "0xbb19dce4ce51f353a98dbab31b5fa3bc80dc7769"
    batcher = "0x0e9c62712ab826e06b16b2236ce542f711eaffaf"
    proposer = "0x86dfafe0689e20685f7872e0cb264868454627bc"
    challenger = "0xf1658da627dd0738c555f9572f658617511c49d5"

```

> By default, `op-deployer` will fill in all other configuration variables with those that match the [standard configuration](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/configurability.html). You can override these defaults by adding them to your intent file by adding the following table: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, `op-deployer` will fill in all other configuration variables with those that match the [standard configuration](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/configurability.html). You can override these default settings by adding them to your intent file using the table below:
```

```toml
[globalDeployOverrides]
  l2BlockTime = 1  # 1s L2blockTime is also standard, op-deployer defaults to 2s
```

You can also do chain by chain configurations in the `chains` table.

### `apply`: deploy your chain

<Callout type="info">
  Hardware wallets are not supported, but you can use ephemeral hot wallets since this deployer key has no privileges.
</Callout>

Now that you've created your intent file, you can apply it to your chain to deploy the L1 smart contracts:

```
op-deployer apply --workdir .deployer --l1-rpc-url <rpc-url> --private-key <private key hex>
```

This command will deploy the OP Stack to L1. It will deploy all L2s specified in the intent file. Superchain
configuration will be set to the Superchain-wide defaults - i.e., your chain will be opted into the [Superchain pause](https://specs.optimism.io/protocol/superchain-configuration.html#pausability)
and will use the same [protocol versions](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/specs/blob/main/specs/protocol/superchain-upgrades.md)
address as other chains on the Superchain.

> ### `inspect`: generating genesis files and chain information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `inspect`: generate genesis files and chain information
```

<Callout type="info">

>   You will need to write the output of these commands to files to make an addition to the [Superchain Registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry).

Reviewer 2: >   You will need to write the output of these commands to files to make an addition to the [Superchain Registry](https://github.com/ethereum-optimism/superchain-registry).

This isn't clear to me. I assume it means "to be part of the Superchain Registry", but the "make an addition to" confuses me.

Author: Okay I took another shot, lmk what you think

</Callout>

> You'll be inspecting the `state.json` file, so you need to navigate into your working directory to inspect the file. With the contracts deployed, you can generate the genesis and rollup configuration files. Run the following commands to do so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inspect the `state.json` file by navigating to your working directory. With the contracts deployed, generate the genesis and rollup configuration files by running the following commands:"
```

```
cd .deployer
op-deployer --workdir .deployer inspect genesis <l2-chain-id> > genesis.json
op-deployer --workdir .deployer inspect rollup <l2-chain-id> > rollup.json
```

Now that you have your `genesis.json` and `rollup.json` you can spin up a node on your network. You can also use the following inspect subcommands to get additional data:

```
op-deployer --workdir .deployer inspect l1 <l2-chain-id> # outputs all L1 contract addresses for an L2 chain
op-deployer --workdir .deployer inspect deploy-config <l2-chain-id> # outputs the deploy config for an L2 chain
op-deployer --workdir .deployer inspect l2-semvers <l2-chain-id> # outputs the semvers for all L2 chains
```
</Steps>

> ## Bootstrap Usage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Bootstrap usage
```

> `op-deployer` can also be used to deploy the contracts it needs to run the `init`... `apply` flow on new chains.
> This process is called "bootstrapping," and is useful for when you want to use `op-deployer` with L3s, new testnets,
> or other custom settlement chains.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also use `op-deployer` to deploy the contracts needed to run the `init`... `apply` flow on new chains. This process, called 'bootstrapping,' is useful when you want to use `op-deployer` with L3s, new testnets, or other custom settlement chains.
```

> ### OPCM Bootstrap

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### OPCM bootstrap
```

Reviewer 2: I _assume_ this isn't a proper noun but could be wrong

    governanceTokenOwner = "0x7759a8a43aa6a7ee9434ddb597beed64180c40fd" # todo: what guidance should we have on this
    unsafeBlockSigner = "0xbb19dce4ce51f353a98dbab31b5fa3bc80dc7769"
    batcher = "0x0e9c62712ab826e06b16b2236ce542f711eaffaf"
    proposer = "0x86dfafe0689e20685f7872e0cb264868454627bc"
    challenger = "0xf1658da627dd0738c555f9572f658617511c49d5" # todo: what address should this be?
```

See the code comments above for explanations of each field. By default, `op-deployer` will fill in all other configuration variables
with those that match our standard config. You can override these defaults by adding them to your intent file, but
that won't be covered here.

### Overriding default values

The default values that op-deployer utilizes are defined [here](todo: add link). If you'd like to override these values, you need to add the following stanza to your intent file like this:

```toml
todo: add override examples
```

todo: reference the default values 
todo: figure our if we should use the global overrides or the chain overrides

> todo: give example of 1s blocktime override

Author: this doc was very helpful, thanks!
